docs/settings/fleet-settings.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[[fleet-settings-kb]]
=== {fleet} settings in {kib}
++++
<titleabbrev>{fleet} settings</titleabbrev>
++++

[NOTE]
====
In {ecloud}, {fleet} flags are already configured.
====

You can configure `xpack.fleet` settings in your `kibana.yml`.
By default, {fleet} is enabled. To use {fleet}, you also need to configure {kib} and {es} hosts.

Many {fleet} settings can also be configured directly through the {fleet} UI.
See {fleet-guide}/fleet-settings.html[Fleet UI settings] for details.

See the {fleet-guide}/index.html[{fleet}] docs for more information about {fleet}.

[[general-fleet-settings-kb]]
==== General {fleet} settings

`xpack.fleet.agents.enabled` {ess-icon}::
Set to `true` (default) to enable {fleet}.

`xpack.fleet.isAirGapped`::
Set to `true` to indicate {fleet} is running in an air-gapped environment. Refer to {fleet-guide}/air-gapped.html[Air-gapped environments] for details. Enabling this flag helps Fleet skip needless requests and improve the user experience for air-gapped environments.

[[fleet-data-visualizer-settings]]

==== {package-manager} settings

`xpack.fleet.registryUrl`::
The address to use to reach the {package-manager} registry.

`xpack.fleet.registryProxyUrl`::
The proxy address to use to reach the {package-manager} registry if an internet connection is not directly available.
Refer to {fleet-guide}/air-gapped.html[Air-gapped environments] for details.

`xpack.fleet.packageVerification.gpgKeyPath`::
The path on disk to the GPG key used to verify {package-manager} packages. If the Elastic public key
is ever reissued as a security precaution, you can use this setting to specify the new key.

==== {fleet} settings

`xpack.fleet.agents.fleet_server.hosts`::
Hostnames used by {agent} for accessing {fleet-server}.
+
If configured in your `kibana.yml`, this setting is grayed out and unavailable
in the {fleet} UI. To make this setting editable in the UI, do not configure it
in the configuration file. 

`xpack.fleet.agents.elasticsearch.hosts`::
Hostnames used by {agent} for accessing {es}.

`xpack.fleet.agents.elasticsearch.ca_sha256`::
Hash pin used for certificate verification. The pin is a base64-encoded string of the SHA-256 fingerprint.

[role="child_attributes"]
==== Preconfiguration settings (for advanced use cases)

Use these settings to pre-define integrations, agent policies, and {fleet-server}
hosts or proxies that you want {fleet} to load up by default.

NOTE: These settings are not supported to pre-configure the Endpoint and Cloud
Security integration.

`xpack.fleet.packages`::
List of integrations that are installed when the {fleet} app starts up for the first time.
+
.Required properties of `xpack.fleet.packages`
[%collapsible%open]
=====
  `name`:::
    Name of the integration from the package registry.

  `version`::: 
    Either an exact semantic version, or the keyword `latest` to fetch the latest integration version.
=====

`xpack.fleet.agentPolicies`::
List of agent policies that are configured when the {fleet} app starts. 
+
.Required properties of `xpack.fleet.agentPolicies`
[%collapsible%open]
=====
  `id`::: 
    Unique ID for this policy. The ID may be a number or string.
  `name`::: 
    Policy name.
=====
+
.Optional properties of `xpack.fleet.agentPolicies`
[%collapsible%open]
=====
  `description`::: 
    Text description of this policy.
  `namespace`::: 
    String identifying this policy's namespace.
  `monitoring_enabled`::: 
    List of keywords that specify the monitoring data to collect. Valid values include `['logs']`, `['metrics']`, and `['logs', 'metrics']`.
  `keep_monitoring_alive`:::
    If `true`, monitoring will be enabled, but logs/metrics collection will be disabled. Use this if you want to keep agent's monitoring server alive even when logs/metrics aren't being collected.
  `is_managed`::: 
    If `true`, this policy is not editable by the user and can only be changed by updating the {kib} config.
  `is_default`::: 
    If `true`, this policy is the default agent policy.
  `is_default_fleet_server`::: 
    If `true`, this policy is the default {fleet-server} agent policy.
  `data_output_id`::: 
    ID of the output to send data. (Need to be identical to `monitoring_output_id`)
  `monitoring_output_id`::: 
    ID of the output to send monitoring data. (Need to be identical to `data_output_id`)
  `package_policies`::: 
    List of integration policies to add to this policy.
+
.Properties of `package_policies`
[%collapsible%open]
=======
  `id`:::: 
    Unique ID of the integration policy. The ID may be a number or string.
  `name`:::: 
    (required) Name of the integration policy.
  `package`:::: 
    (required) Integration that this policy configures.
+
.Properties of `package`
[%collapsible%open]
========
  `name`::::
    Name of the integration associated with this policy.
========

  `description`:::: 
    Text string describing this integration policy.
  `namespace`:::: 
    String identifying this policy's namespace.
  `inputs`:::: 
    Array that overrides any default input settings for this integration. Follows the same schema as integration inputs, with the exception that any object in `vars` can be passed `frozen: true` in order to prevent that specific `var` from being edited by the user.
=======
=====
+
Example configuration:
+
[source,yaml]
----
xpack.fleet.packages:
  - name: apache
    version: 0.5.0

xpack.fleet.agentPolicies:
  - name: Preconfigured Policy
    id: 1
    namespace: test
    package_policies:
      - package:
          name: system
        name: System Integration
        id: preconfigured-system
        inputs:
          - type: system/metrics
            enabled: true
            vars:
              - name: system.hostfs
                value: home/test
            streams:
              - data_stream:
                  dataset: system.core
                enabled: true
                vars:
                  - name: period
                    value: 20s
          - type: winlog
            enabled: false
----


`xpack.fleet.outputs`::
List of outputs that are configured when the {fleet} app starts.
+
Certain types of outputs have additional required and optional settings. Refer to {fleet-guide}/fleet-settings.html#output-settings[Output settings] in the {fleet} and {agent} Guide for the full list of settings for each output type.
+
If configured in your `kibana.yml`, output settings are grayed out and
unavailable in the {fleet} UI. To make these settings editable in the UI, do not
configure them in the configuration file. 
+
NOTE: The `xpack.fleet.outputs` settings are intended for advanced configurations such as having multiple outputs. We recommend not enabling the `xpack.fleet.agents.elasticsearch.host` settings when using `xpack.fleet.outputs`.
+
.Required properties of `xpack.fleet.outputs`
[%collapsible%open]
=====
  `id`::: 
    Unique ID for this output. The ID should be a string.
  `name`::: 
    Output name.
  `type`::: 
    Type of Output. Currently we support "elasticsearch", "logstash", "kafka", and "remote_elasticsearch".
  `hosts`::: 
    Array that contains the list of host for that output.
=====
+
.Optional properties of `xpack.fleet.outputs`
[%collapsible%open]
=====
  `is_default`::: 
    If `true`, the output specified in `xpack.fleet.outputs` will be the one used to send agent data unless there is another one configured specifically for the agent policy.
  `is_default_monitoring`::: 
    If `true`, the output specified in `xpack.fleet.outputs` will be the one used to send agent monitoring data unless there is another one configured specifically for the agent policy.
  `is_internal`:::
    If `true`, the output specified in `xpack.fleet.outputs` will not appear in the UI, and can only be managed via `kibana.yml` or the Fleet API.
  `config`::: 
    Extra config for that output.
  `proxy_id`:::
    Unique ID of a proxy to access the output.
  `ssl`:::
    Set to enable authentication using the Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) protocol.
+
.Properties of `ssl`
[%collapsible%open]
=======
  `certificate`:::: 
    The SSL certificate that {agents} use to authenticate with the output. Include the full contents of the certificate here.
=======

  `secrets`::: 
    Include here any values for preconfigured outputs that should be stored as secrets. A secret value is replaced in the `kibana.yml` settings file with a reference, with the original value stored externally as a secure hash. Note that this type of secret storage requires all configured {fleet-server}s to be on version 8.12.0 or later.
+
.Properties of `secrets`
[%collapsible%open]
=======
  `key`:::::
    The private certificate key that {agents} use to authenticate with the output.
=======
=====
+
Example `xpack.fleet.outputs` configuration:
+
[source,yaml]
----
xpack.fleet.outputs:
  - id: my-logstash-output-with-a-secret
    name: preconfigured logstash output with a secret
    type:  logstash
    hosts: ["localhost:9999"]
    ssl:
      certificate: xxxxxxxxxx
    secrets:
      ssl:
        key: securekey
----

`xpack.fleet.fleetServerHosts`::
List of {fleet-server} hosts that are configured when the {fleet} app starts.
+
.Required properties of `xpack.fleet.fleetServerHosts`
[%collapsible%open]
=====
  `id`:::
    Unique ID for the host server.
  `name`::: 
    Name of the host server.
  `host_urls`::: 
    Array of one or more host URLs that {agents} will use to connect to {fleet-server}.
=====
+
.Optional properties of `xpack.fleet.fleetServerHosts`
[%collapsible%open]
=====
  `is_default`:::
    Whether or not this host should be the default to use for {fleet-server}.
  `proxy_id`::: 
    Unique ID of the proxy to access the {fleet-server} host.
=====

`xpack.fleet.proxy`::
List of proxies to access {fleet-server} that are configured when the {fleet} app starts.
+
.Required properties of `xpack.fleet.proxy`
[%collapsible%open]
=====
  `id`:::
    Unique ID of the proxy to access the {fleet-server} host.
  `name`::: 
    Name of the proxy to access the {fleet-server} host.
  `url`::: 
    URL that {agents} use to connect to the proxy to access {fleet-server}.
=====
+
.Optional properties of `xpack.fleet.proxy`
[%collapsible%open]
=====
  `proxy_headers`:::
    Map of headers to use with the proxy.
.Properties of `proxy_headers`
[%collapsible%open]
=======
  `key`:::: 
    Key to use for the proxy header.
  `value`:::: 
    Value to use for the proxy header.
=======
  `certificate_authorities`::: 
    Certificate authority (CA) used to issue the certificate.
  `certificate`::: 
    The name of the certificate used to authenticate the proxy.
  `certificate_key`::: 
    The certificate key used to authenticate the proxy.
=====

`xpack.fleet.enableExperimental`::
List of experimental feature flag to enable in Fleet.

Commit message:

[Cloud Security] Add is_internal flag to fleet server hosts configuration (#175983)
## Summary

- Follow up after https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/175546
- Part of https://github.com/elastic/kibana/issues/165251

introducing a new `is_internal` config option for
`xpack.fleet.fleetServerHosts`. The usage is currently to protect the
internal fleet server hosts in the UI:

- filter them out in the Settings UI
- disable internal hosts in the agent policy form



### Checklist

Delete any items that are not applicable to this PR.

- [x]
[Documentation](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/master/development-documentation.html)
was added for features that require explanation or tutorials
- [x] [Unit or functional
tests](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/master/development-tests.html)
were updated or added to match the most common scenarios
- [x] [Flaky Test
Runner](https://ci-stats.kibana.dev/trigger_flaky_test_runner/1) was
used on any tests changed

---------

Co-authored-by: kibanamachine <42973632+kibanamachine@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: David Kilfoyle <41695641+kilfoyle@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/settings/fleet-settings.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[[fleet-settings-kb]]
=== {fleet} settings in {kib}
++++
<titleabbrev>{fleet} settings</titleabbrev>
++++

[NOTE]
====
In {ecloud}, {fleet} flags are already configured.
====

You can configure `xpack.fleet` settings in your `kibana.yml`.
By default, {fleet} is enabled. To use {fleet}, you also need to configure {kib} and {es} hosts.

Many {fleet} settings can also be configured directly through the {fleet} UI.
See {fleet-guide}/fleet-settings.html[Fleet UI settings] for details.

See the {fleet-guide}/index.html[{fleet}] docs for more information about {fleet}.

[[general-fleet-settings-kb]]
==== General {fleet} settings

`xpack.fleet.agents.enabled` {ess-icon}::
Set to `true` (default) to enable {fleet}.

`xpack.fleet.isAirGapped`::
Set to `true` to indicate {fleet} is running in an air-gapped environment. Refer to {fleet-guide}/air-gapped.html[Air-gapped environments] for details. Enabling this flag helps Fleet skip needless requests and improve the user experience for air-gapped environments.

[[fleet-data-visualizer-settings]]

==== {package-manager} settings

`xpack.fleet.registryUrl`::
The address to use to reach the {package-manager} registry.

`xpack.fleet.registryProxyUrl`::
The proxy address to use to reach the {package-manager} registry if an internet connection is not directly available.
Refer to {fleet-guide}/air-gapped.html[Air-gapped environments] for details.

`xpack.fleet.packageVerification.gpgKeyPath`::
The path on disk to the GPG key used to verify {package-manager} packages. If the Elastic public key
is ever reissued as a security precaution, you can use this setting to specify the new key.

==== {fleet} settings

`xpack.fleet.agents.fleet_server.hosts`::
Hostnames used by {agent} for accessing {fleet-server}.
+
If configured in your `kibana.yml`, this setting is grayed out and unavailable
in the {fleet} UI. To make this setting editable in the UI, do not configure it
in the configuration file. 

`xpack.fleet.agents.elasticsearch.hosts`::
Hostnames used by {agent} for accessing {es}.

`xpack.fleet.agents.elasticsearch.ca_sha256`::
Hash pin used for certificate verification. The pin is a base64-encoded string of the SHA-256 fingerprint.

[role="child_attributes"]
==== Preconfiguration settings (for advanced use cases)

Use these settings to pre-define integrations, agent policies, and {fleet-server}
hosts or proxies that you want {fleet} to load up by default.

NOTE: These settings are not supported to pre-configure the Endpoint and Cloud
Security integration.

`xpack.fleet.packages`::
List of integrations that are installed when the {fleet} app starts up for the first time.
+
.Required properties of `xpack.fleet.packages`
[%collapsible%open]
=====
  `name`:::
    Name of the integration from the package registry.

  `version`::: 
    Either an exact semantic version, or the keyword `latest` to fetch the latest integration version.
=====

`xpack.fleet.agentPolicies`::
List of agent policies that are configured when the {fleet} app starts. 
+
.Required properties of `xpack.fleet.agentPolicies`
[%collapsible%open]
=====
  `id`::: 
    Unique ID for this policy. The ID may be a number or string.
  `name`::: 
    Policy name.
=====
+
.Optional properties of `xpack.fleet.agentPolicies`
[%collapsible%open]
=====
  `description`::: 
    Text description of this policy.
  `namespace`::: 
    String identifying this policy's namespace.
  `monitoring_enabled`::: 
    List of keywords that specify the monitoring data to collect. Valid values include `['logs']`, `['metrics']`, and `['logs', 'metrics']`.
  `keep_monitoring_alive`:::
    If `true`, monitoring will be enabled, but logs/metrics collection will be disabled. Use this if you want to keep agent's monitoring server alive even when logs/metrics aren't being collected.
  `is_managed`::: 
    If `true`, this policy is not editable by the user and can only be changed by updating the {kib} config.
  `is_default`::: 
    If `true`, this policy is the default agent policy.
  `is_default_fleet_server`::: 
    If `true`, this policy is the default {fleet-server} agent policy.
  `data_output_id`::: 
    ID of the output to send data. (Need to be identical to `monitoring_output_id`)
  `monitoring_output_id`::: 
    ID of the output to send monitoring data. (Need to be identical to `data_output_id`)
  `package_policies`::: 
    List of integration policies to add to this policy.
+
.Properties of `package_policies`
[%collapsible%open]
=======
  `id`:::: 
    Unique ID of the integration policy. The ID may be a number or string.
  `name`:::: 
    (required) Name of the integration policy.
  `package`:::: 
    (required) Integration that this policy configures.
+
.Properties of `package`
[%collapsible%open]
========
  `name`::::
    Name of the integration associated with this policy.
========

  `description`:::: 
    Text string describing this integration policy.
  `namespace`:::: 
    String identifying this policy's namespace.
  `inputs`:::: 
    Array that overrides any default input settings for this integration. Follows the same schema as integration inputs, with the exception that any object in `vars` can be passed `frozen: true` in order to prevent that specific `var` from being edited by the user.
=======
=====
+
Example configuration:
+
[source,yaml]
----
xpack.fleet.packages:
  - name: apache
    version: 0.5.0

xpack.fleet.agentPolicies:
  - name: Preconfigured Policy
    id: 1
    namespace: test
    package_policies:
      - package:
          name: system
        name: System Integration
        id: preconfigured-system
        inputs:
          - type: system/metrics
            enabled: true
            vars:
              - name: system.hostfs
                value: home/test
            streams:
              - data_stream:
                  dataset: system.core
                enabled: true
                vars:
                  - name: period
                    value: 20s
          - type: winlog
            enabled: false
----


`xpack.fleet.outputs`::
List of outputs that are configured when the {fleet} app starts.
+
Certain types of outputs have additional required and optional settings. Refer to {fleet-guide}/fleet-settings.html#output-settings[Output settings] in the {fleet} and {agent} Guide for the full list of settings for each output type.
+
If configured in your `kibana.yml`, output settings are grayed out and
unavailable in the {fleet} UI. To make these settings editable in the UI, do not
configure them in the configuration file. 
+
NOTE: The `xpack.fleet.outputs` settings are intended for advanced configurations such as having multiple outputs. We recommend not enabling the `xpack.fleet.agents.elasticsearch.host` settings when using `xpack.fleet.outputs`.
+
.Required properties of `xpack.fleet.outputs`
[%collapsible%open]
=====
  `id`::: 
    Unique ID for this output. The ID should be a string.
  `name`::: 
    Output name.
  `type`::: 
    Type of Output. Currently we support "elasticsearch", "logstash", "kafka", and "remote_elasticsearch".
  `hosts`::: 
    Array that contains the list of host for that output.
=====
+
.Optional properties of `xpack.fleet.outputs`
[%collapsible%open]
=====
  `is_default`::: 
    If `true`, the output specified in `xpack.fleet.outputs` will be the one used to send agent data unless there is another one configured specifically for the agent policy.
  `is_default_monitoring`::: 
    If `true`, the output specified in `xpack.fleet.outputs` will be the one used to send agent monitoring data unless there is another one configured specifically for the agent policy.
  `is_internal`:::
    If `true`, the output specified in `xpack.fleet.outputs` will not appear in the UI, and can only be managed via `kibana.yml` or the Fleet API.
  `config`::: 
    Extra config for that output.
  `proxy_id`:::
    Unique ID of a proxy to access the output.
  `ssl`:::
    Set to enable authentication using the Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) protocol.
+
.Properties of `ssl`
[%collapsible%open]
=======
  `certificate`:::: 
    The SSL certificate that {agents} use to authenticate with the output. Include the full contents of the certificate here.
=======

  `secrets`::: 
    Include here any values for preconfigured outputs that should be stored as secrets. A secret value is replaced in the `kibana.yml` settings file with a reference, with the original value stored externally as a secure hash. Note that this type of secret storage requires all configured {fleet-server}s to be on version 8.12.0 or later.
+
.Properties of `secrets`
[%collapsible%open]
=======
  `key`:::::
    The private certificate key that {agents} use to authenticate with the output.
=======
=====
+
Example `xpack.fleet.outputs` configuration:
+
[source,yaml]
----
xpack.fleet.outputs:
  - id: my-logstash-output-with-a-secret
    name: preconfigured logstash output with a secret
    type:  logstash
    hosts: ["localhost:9999"]
    ssl:
      certificate: xxxxxxxxxx
    secrets:
      ssl:
        key: securekey
----

`xpack.fleet.fleetServerHosts`::
List of {fleet-server} hosts that are configured when the {fleet} app starts.
+
.Required properties of `xpack.fleet.fleetServerHosts`
[%collapsible%open]
=====
  `id`:::
    Unique ID for the host server.
  `name`::: 
    Name of the host server.
  `host_urls`::: 
    Array of one or more host URLs that {agents} will use to connect to {fleet-server}.
=====
+
.Optional properties of `xpack.fleet.fleetServerHosts`
[%collapsible%open]
=====
  `is_default`:::
    Whether or not this host should be the default to use for {fleet-server}.
  `is_internal`:::
    If `true` the host will not appear in the UI, and can only be managed through `kibana.yml` or the {fleet} API.
  `proxy_id`::: 
    Unique ID of the proxy to access the {fleet-server} host.
=====

`xpack.fleet.proxy`::
List of proxies to access {fleet-server} that are configured when the {fleet} app starts.
+
.Required properties of `xpack.fleet.proxy`
[%collapsible%open]
=====
  `id`:::
    Unique ID of the proxy to access the {fleet-server} host.
  `name`::: 
    Name of the proxy to access the {fleet-server} host.
  `url`::: 
    URL that {agents} use to connect to the proxy to access {fleet-server}.
=====
+
.Optional properties of `xpack.fleet.proxy`
[%collapsible%open]
=====
  `proxy_headers`:::
    Map of headers to use with the proxy.
.Properties of `proxy_headers`
[%collapsible%open]
=======
  `key`:::: 
    Key to use for the proxy header.
  `value`:::: 
    Value to use for the proxy header.
=======
  `certificate_authorities`::: 
    Certificate authority (CA) used to issue the certificate.
  `certificate`::: 
    The name of the certificate used to authenticate the proxy.
  `certificate_key`::: 
    The certificate key used to authenticate the proxy.
=====

`xpack.fleet.enableExperimental`::
List of experimental feature flag to enable in Fleet.
